# Exoplanet-Classifier
## Nasa Kepler Exoplanet Search Data

This is a dataset collected by the Kepler Space Observatory, a NASA built satellite launched in 2009 dedicated to searching for exoplanets, with the ultimate goal of finding habitable planets. An exoplanet is a planet that is not located in our solar system. The data consists of almost 10,000 Kelper Objects of Interest (KOI's) which are the exoplanet candidates that Kepler has taken observations on. You can find the original dataset here: https://exoplanetarchive.ipac.caltech.edu/cgi-bin/TblView/nph-tblView?app=ExoTbls&config=cumulative

The goal of this project is to create a model that accurately predicts whether a KOI is a **CANDIDATE** for further investigation or a **FALSE POSITIVE**. The Kepler mission finds exoplanets by observing transit events on target stars. A transit event is when a planet passes between a star and its observer (in this case the Kepler telescope). When this happens, the target star's light dims ever so slightly. However, this doesn't always mean that an exoplanet is what caused the star to dim. **FALSE POSITIVES** are detections of transit-like signals present in the data that are actually not due to planetary transits. This usually happens because of Ecclipsing Binaries. This when the transit-like event is caused from a star passing in front or behind of the original target star, tampering with the light signals enough to mimic a planetary transit. My goal is to use the data to decipher when a transit-like event is a **FALSE POSTIIVE** or an exoplanet **CANDIDATE** ready for further investigation. 
